README.md, before:

# SQL Practice
By: JD Linares  
Created: 2024 01 03 


## Description
Synthetic data for SQL load and query practice


## Synthetic Data
Randomly generated data: 
1. Employees
2. Customers
3. Products
4. Orders

Will break down by department in the future: 
- Analytics Sales Dashboard Data
- Analytics Customers Dashboard Data
- Operations Products
- Operations Telemetry
- Finance Income Statement
- Finance Balance Sheet
- Finance Cash Flow Statement
- HR Employees
- HR Salaries
- HR Time sheets

Data represents a cloud based healthcare operations company with remote patient monitoring. Data is broken down by:employees, customers, products and orders. In the future the data will be extended and broken down by department. Departments will include client success, data, growth, finance, operations, HR, and leadership. The data contains information the company has recorded over the last 2 years (2023, 2024) along with year to date (2025) data.


## Load
Scripts to load data from CSV files to a database
- Create database and tables
- Load CSV files


## Queries

**Queries to extract insights from the data** 

Client success team questions include: 
- How large is our total addressable market and what companies does it include?
- What data is publicly available on current and potential customers though CMS?
- What is the demographic profile of companies we are most and least successful with?
- Which products are most interacted with by clients, patients, and families?
- What is our most profitable product?
- What is our highest grossing product?
- What is our most demoed product?
- Which products are purchased, but rarely used? 
- Which products show a drop-off in usage? 
- Which products show the greatest year over year growth in same customer usage.

Data Analytics team questions include: 
- What is our current cloud storage cost and growth rate?
- What is our current cloud compute cost and growth rate?
- Which users are most active on our analytics platform and what queries do they run?
- Can we optimize any query we include in examples to reduce compute?

Operations team questions include: 
- How many orders has each product received each year? 
- How much revenue did each product generate each year?

Sales team questions include: 
- How many of our highest revenue item will need to be sold before the end of the year to reach our revenue goal? 
- Which sales person makes the greatest number of sales?
- Which sales person makes the highest dollar value of sales?
- What quantity of sales come from each region?

Leadership team questions include: 
- What is the annual CAGR for revenue? 
- What is the growth rate for new clients each year? 

Finance team questions include: 
- What how many days are in the cash conversion cycle? 
- What percent of our assets are made up by cash or cash equivalents? 

HR questions include:
- What is the demographic profile of our employees? 
- What is the growth rate of total salaries each year?

Commit message:

Load SEC data on companies

README.md, after:

# SQL Practice
By: JD Linares  
Created: 2024 01 03 


## Description
Synthetic data for SQL load and query practice


## Synthetic Data
Randomly generated data: 
1. Employees
2. Customers
3. Products
4. Orders

Will break down by department in the future: 
- Analytics Sales Dashboard Data
- Analytics Customers Dashboard Data
- Operations Products
- Operations Telemetry
- Finance Income Statement
- Finance Balance Sheet
- Finance Cash Flow Statement
- HR Employees
- HR Salaries
- HR Time sheets

Data represents a cloud based healthcare operations company with remote patient monitoring. Data is broken down by:employees, customers, products and orders. In the future the data will be extended and broken down by department. Departments will include client success, data, growth, finance, operations, HR, and leadership. The data contains information the company has recorded over the last 2 years (2023, 2024) along with year to date (2025) data.


## Load
Scripts to load data from CSV files to a database
- Create database and tables
- Load CSV files


## Queries

**Queries to extract insights from the data** 

Client success team questions include: 
- How large is our total addressable market and what companies does it include?
- What data is publicly available on current and potential customers though CMS?
- What is the demographic profile of companies we are most and least successful with?
- Which products are most interacted with by clients, patients, and families?
- What is our most profitable product?
- What is our highest grossing product?
- What is our most demoed product?
- Which products are purchased, but rarely used? 
- Which products show a drop-off in usage? 
- Which products show the greatest year over year growth in same customer usage.

Data Analytics team questions include: 
- What is our current cloud storage cost and growth rate?
- What is our current cloud compute cost and growth rate?
- Which users are most active on our analytics platform and what queries do they run?
- Can we optimize any query we include in examples to reduce compute?
- What are the most used data sources and can we web scrape them?

Operations team questions include: 
- How many orders has each product received each year? 
- How much revenue did each product generate each year?

Sales team questions include: 
- How many of our highest revenue item will need to be sold before the end of the year to reach our revenue goal? 
- Which sales person makes the greatest number of sales?
- Which sales person makes the highest dollar value of sales?
- What quantity of sales come from each region?

Leadership team questions include: 
- What is the annual CAGR for revenue? 
- What is the growth rate for new clients each year? 

Finance team questions include: 
- What how many days are in the cash conversion cycle? 
- What percent of our assets are made up by cash or cash equivalents? 

HR questions include:
- What is the demographic profile of our employees? 
- What is the growth rate of total salaries each year?
